feat/new-lessons-on-js-promises (#36045)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/02-javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/complete-a-promise-with-resolve-and-reject.english.md

---
id: 5cdafbc32913098997531680
title: Complete a Promise with Resolve and Reject
challengeType: 1
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
A promise has three states: <code>pending</code>, <code>fulfilled</code>, and <code>rejected</code>. The promise you created in the last challenge is forever stuck in the <code>pending</code> state because you did add a way to complete the promise. The <code>resolve</code> and <code>reject</code> parameters given to the promise argument are used to do this. <code>resolve</code> is used when you want your promise to succeed, and <code>reject</code> is used when you want it to fail. These are methods that take an argument, as seen below.

```js
const myPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
	if(true) {
		resolve("Promise was fulfilled");
	} else {
		reject("Promise was rejected");
	}
});
```

The example above uses strings for the argument of these functions, but it can really be anything. Often, it might be an object that you would use data from to put on your website or elsewhere.
</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>

> Use the <code>resolve</code> method if the condition given is true to fulfill the promise. Pass it the string: <code>We got the data.</code> as its argument. Use the <code>reject</code> method if condition is not true and pass it the string: <code>Data not received.</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the <code>resolve</code> method if the condition given is true to fulfill the promise. Pass it a string with the value <code>We got the data</code>. Use the <code>reject</code> method if condition is false and pass it the string: <code>Data not received</code>.
```
Minor rephrasing feel free to mark as resolved if you feel it is not required

> Use the <code>resolve</code> method if the condition given is true to fulfill the promise. Pass it the string: <code>We got the data.</code> as its argument. Use the <code>reject</code> method if condition is not true and pass it the string: <code>Data not received.</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the <code>resolve</code> method if the condition given is true to fulfill the promise. Pass it the string: <code>We got the data</code> as its argument. Use the <code>reject</code> method if condition is false and pass it the string: <code>Data not received</code>.
```
I think we can get rid of the `.`, I'm sure many people would get errors due to this fullstop

</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: You should properly add a <code>resolve</code> method.

>     testString: getUserInput => assert(!getUserInput('index').match(/var/g),'<code>var</code> should not exist in code.');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    testString: getUserInput => assert(!getUserInput('index').match(/var/g));
```

Reviewer: I believe this test is incomplete?

>   - text: You should properly add a <code>reject</code> method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: You should properly use a <code>reject</code> method.
```

>     testString: getUserInput => assert(!getUserInput('index').match(/var/g),'<code>var</code> should not exist in code.');

Reviewer: Or maybe all of these tests are incomplete?

>   - text: <code>resolve</code> is executed when the <code>if</code> condition is true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: <code>resolve</code> is executed when the <code>if</code> condition is <code>true</code>.
```

    testString: getUserInput => assert(!getUserInput('index').match(/var/g),'<code>var</code> should not exist in code.');

>   - text: <code>reject</code> is executed when the <code>if</code> condition is not true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: <code>reject</code> should be executed when the <code>if</code> condition is <code>false</code>.
```

---
id: 5cdafbc32913098997531680
title: Complete a Promise with Resolve and Reject
challengeType: 1
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
A promise has three states: <code>pending</code>, <code>fulfilled</code>, and <code>rejected</code>. The promise you created in the last challenge is forever stuck in the <code>pending</code> state because you did add a way to complete the promise. The <code>resolve</code> and <code>reject</code> parameters given to the promise argument are used to do this. <code>resolve</code> is used when you want your promise to succeed, and <code>reject</code> is used when you want it to fail. These are methods that take an argument, as seen below.

```js
const myPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {

> 	if(true) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if(true) {
```

> 		resolve("Promise was fulfilled");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    resolve("Promise was fulfilled");
```

> 	} else {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  } else {
```

> 		reject("Promise was rejected");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    reject("Promise was rejected");
```

> 	}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  }
```

Author: I went through this - these should all be fixed now

});
```

The example above uses strings for the argument of these functions, but it can really be anything. Often, it might be an object that you would use data from to put on your website or elsewhere.
</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>

> Use the <code>resolve</code> method if the condition given is true to fulfill the promise. Pass it a string with the value <code>We got the data</code>. Use the <code>reject</code> method if condition is false and pass it the string: <code>Data not received</code>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make the promise handle success and failure.  If <code>responseFromServer</code> is <code>true</code>, call the <code>resolve</code> method to successfully complete the promise. Pass <code>resolve</code> a string with the value <code>We got the data</code>.  If <code>responseFromServer</code> is <code>false</code>, use the <code>reject</code> method instead and pass it the string: <code>Data not received</code>.
```
Okay, but in that case we need to call it `responseFromServer` twice.

</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: <code>resolve</code> should be executed when the <code>if</code> condition is <code>true</code>.
    testString: assert(removeJSComments(code).match(/if\s*\(\s*responseFromServer\s*\)\s*{\s*resolve\s*\(\s*('|"|`)We got the data\1\s*\)(\s*|\s*;\s*)}/g));
  - text: <code>reject</code> should be executed when the <code>if</code> condition is <code>false</code>.
    testString: assert(removeJSComments(code).match(/}\s*else\s*{\s*reject\s*\(\s*('|"|`)Data not received\1\s*\)(\s*|\s*;\s*)}/g));
```

</section>

## Challenge Seed
<section id='challengeSeed'>
<div id='js-seed'>

```js
const makeServerRequest = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {

>   const responseFromServer = true;

Author: ```suggestion
// responseFromServer represents a response from a server
let responseFromServer;
```

>   const responseFromServer = true;

Reviewer 2: I like your new version.

---
id: 5cdafbc32913098997531680
title: Complete a Promise with resolve and reject
challengeType: 1
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
A promise has three states: <code>pending</code>, <code>fulfilled</code>, and <code>rejected</code>. The promise you created in the last challenge is forever stuck in the <code>pending</code> state because you did not add a way to complete the promise. The <code>resolve</code> and <code>reject</code> parameters given to the promise argument are used to do this. <code>resolve</code> is used when you want your promise to succeed, and <code>reject</code> is used when you want it to fail. These are methods that take an argument, as seen below.

```js
const myPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {

>   if(true) {

Reviewer 3: ```
  if(true) {
```

The promise here will always resolve. I'm wondering if maybe we should add a note here explaining that this is just an example, otherwise some campers might get the idea that this is how promises are always resolved?

Just a thought...

Author: I don't think it's necessary here, this is just a code example. Let me know if you still think something needs to be added.

I suppose I could change `true` to `condition` or something...
`if(condition here)`

Reviewer 3: Without an explanation about `if(true)`, there's a very good chance of someone completely new to Promises interpreting this as literally how promises work. Moreover, this code is in the challenge description (not the challenge code), so again, one can never know for sure if this is just an example. 

This is fine though - `if(condition here)`.

    resolve("Promise was fulfilled");
  } else {
    reject("Promise was rejected");
  }
```

> The example above uses strings for the argument of these functions, but it can really be anything. Often, it might be an object that you would use data from to put on your website or elsewhere.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example above uses strings for the argument of these functions, but it can really be anything. Often, it might be an object, that you would use data from, to put on your website or elsewhere.
```

Reviewer 4: @Manish-Giri I am not sure about that comma before `that`.

Author: I did not think any of these commas were necessary - this sentence seems to work without them to me - anyone else want to weigh in?

---
id: 5cdafbc32913098997531680
title: Complete a Promise with Resolve and Reject
challengeType: 1
---

## Description
<section id='description'>

> A promise has three states: <code>pending</code>, <code>fulfilled</code>, and <code>rejected</code>. The promise you created in the last challenge is forever stuck in the <code>pending</code> state because you did add a way to complete the promise. The <code>resolve</code> and <code>reject</code> parameters given to the promise argument are used to do this. <code>resolve</code> is used when you want your promise to succeed, and <code>reject</code> is used when you want it to fail. These are methods that take an argument, as seen below.

Reviewer 4: Missing key word "not" in one of the sentences.
```suggestion
A promise has three states: <code>pending</code>, <code>fulfilled</code>, and <code>rejected</code>. The promise you created in the last challenge is forever stuck in the <code>pending</code> state because you did not add a way to complete the promise. The <code>resolve</code> and <code>reject</code> parameters given to the promise argument are used to do this. <code>resolve</code> is used when you want your promise to succeed, and <code>reject</code> is used when you want it to fail. These are methods that take an argument, as seen below.
```
